# Migration Guide
## Migrating from `6.x.x` to `7.0.0`

`7.0.0` introduces several breaking changes. Some of these changes are highly likely to affect plugins, so it is recommended to read through this guide and apply any necessary changes to your plugins.

### Quick links
 + [Changes to `Client.on`](#changes-to-clienton)
 + [Changes to `client.nextPos`](#changes-to-clientnextpos)
 + [Changes to `CLI.getClient and CLI.removeClient`](#changes-to-cligetclient-and-cliremoveclient)
 + [Changes to `CLI.loadServers` and `CLI.serverList`](#changes-to-cliloadservers-and-cliserverlist)
 + [Changes to the `Http` service class.](#changes-to-the-http-service-class)
 + [Miscellaneous breaking changes](#miscellaneous-breaking-changes)

### Changes to `Client.on`
The handler signature of the `Client` event emitter has been changed.
Previously, the handler signature was `(playerdata: IPlayerData, client: Client)`. This has been changed to `(client: Client)`.
#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
Client.on('ready', (playerdata: IPlayerData, client: Client) => {
    Log('My Plugin', `${playerdata.name} is ready!`);
});
```
to
```typescript
// The parameter now has an implicit type of Client.
Client.on('ready', (client) => {
    Log('My Plugin', `${client.playerData.name} is ready!`);
});
```

### Changes to `client.nextPos`
`client.nextPos` has changed from a single value to a queue. The client will now move to each position in the queue in the order they were added.
New points can be added to the queue by using `client.nextPos.push(myNextPos);`
#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
setInterval(() => {
    if (client.nextPos === null) {
        client.nextPos = myLongListOfPoints[currentPoint];
        currentPoint++;
    }
}, 100);
```
to
```typescript
client.nextPos.push(...myLongListOfPoints);
```

### Changes to `CLI.getClient and CLI.removeClient`
`CLI.getClients`, `CLI.getClient` and `CLI.removeClient` have been removed. They have been replaced by the methods `CLI.getAny` and `CLI.removeAny` which take a predicate
as the parameter and respectively return or remove any client which returns true for the predicate.

`CLI.getClients` has been deprecated, but will still function correctly.
#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
CLI.removeClient(myclient.alias);
```
to
```typescript
CLI.removeAny((client) => client.alias === myclient.alias);
```

Change
```typescript
const usWestClients = CLI.getClients().filter((client) => client.server.name === 'USWest');
```
to
```typescript
const usWestClients = CLI.getAny((client) => client.server.name === 'USWest');
```

### Changes to `CLI.loadServers` and `CLI.serverList`
The server list has been moved from the `CLI` to the new service class `AccountService`. The method `AccountServer.getServerList` can be used to get the server list.
#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
CLI.loadServers().then(() => {
    client.connectTo(CLI.serverList['Australia']);
});
```
to
```typescript
AccountService.getServerList().then((servers) => {
    client.connectTo(servers['Australia']);
});
```

### Changes to the `Http` service class.
The `Http` service class has been replaced by a new class, `HttpClient`. The new class supports both http and https requests and will automatically choose the appropriate protocol.
The old `Http` class is still available, but its method signatures have changed, and it is not recommended to use it anymore.
#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
Http.get('http://mywebsite.com', { id: 'myid' });
```
to
```typescript
HttpClient.get('http://mywebsite.com', {
    query: { id: 'myid' }
});
```

Change
```typescript
Http.proxiedGet('http://mywebsite.com', myProxy, { id: 'myid' });
```
to
```typescript
HttpClient.get('http://mywebsite.com', {
    query: { id: 'myid' },
    proxy: myProxy
});
```

### Miscellaneous breaking changes
There have been a handful of other breaking changes, but these changes affect internal APIs which are extremely unlikely to ever be used in a plugin. They are mentioned here for the purpose of documenting all breaking changes, but these can safely be ignored.
 + Renamed `packet.writeUnsigedByte` to `packet.writeUnsignedByte`
 + Functions in the `xmltojson.ts` file have been moved into a static `XMLtoJSON` class to prevent namepsace pollution.
 + The `XMLtoJSON.parseError` function has been removed.
 + `Updater.checkVersion` has been removed, and replaced with `Updater.isOutdated`.
