# Migration Guide
## Migrating from version 6 to version 7.

Version 7 has seen a large section of the nrelay codebase receive massive changes and reworks. The plugin system in particular has had a large amount of changes, to the point where *all* plugins will require at least minor changes to work with version 7.

This document is not an exhaustive list of every single breaking change, but is intended to be a guide which will help plugin developers convert plugins written for version 6 of nrelay, to the version 7 style.

## Quick links
+ [New dependencies](#new-dependencies)
+ [Changes to interface names](#changes-to-interface-names)
+ [Changes to the plugin decorators](#changes-to-the-plugin-decorators)
+ [Changes to the `PluginManager`](#changes-to-the-pluginmanager)
+ [Changes to the `PlayerTracker`](#changes-to-the-playertracker)
+ [Changes to the `Client` class](#changes-to-the-client-class)
+ [Changes to the `CLI` class](#changes-to-the-cli-class)
+ [Changes to the `Http` service class.](#changes-to-the-http-service-class)

## New dependencies
nrelay v7 introduces several new dependencies. If you are upgrading an existing installation of nrelay, you will need to run
```bash
npm install
```
to install the new dependencies.

## Changes to interface names
Possibly the most impactful breaking change between v6 and v7 is luckily also one of the fastest ones to refactor.
**All** interfaces have had the leading `I` removed from the name. For example, `IPlayerData`, `IAccount` and `IServer` are now just `PlayerData`, `Account` and `Server`.

To refactor your plugins, simply do a Find and Replace operation to remove the `I` from interfaces which are used in your plugins. If find and replace is not available, or doesn't work, The [models](https://docs.nrelay.net/modules/models.html) section of the docs website can be used to find the new names of interfaces.

## Changes to the plugin decorators
The plugin decorators have been changed, for the most part, to distinguish between plugins written for v6 and plugins written for v7.
### Changes to `@NrPlugin`
The `@NrPlugin` decorator has been renamed to `@Library`. The object that is passed to the decorator has remained the same.

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
@NrPlugin({ name: 'example plugin', author: 'tcrane' })
class ExamplePlugin {
```
to
```typescript
@Library({ name: 'example plugin', author: 'tcrane' })
class ExamplePlugin {
```

### Changes to `@HookPacket`
The `@HookPacket` decorator has been renamed to `@PacketHook`, and no longer requires a `PacketType` parameter.

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
@HookPacket(PacketType.MAPINFO)
onMapInfo(client: Client, mapInfo: MapInfoPacket): void {
```
to
```typescript
@PacketHook()
onMapInfo(client: Client, mapInfo: MapInfoPacket): void {
```

## Changes to the `PluginManager`
The `PluginManager` has been renamed to `LibraryManager`, and has also seen several large changes which reduce the likelihood of plugins needing to use it.

Both `getInstanceOf` and `afterInit` have been deprecated, and should no longer be used.
A dependency injection system has been introduced to replace the `getInstanceOf` method of using a plugin from another plugin.

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
constructor() {
  PluginManager.afterInit(() => {
    const tracker = PluginManager.getInstanceof(PlayerTracker);
  });
}
```
to
```typescript
constructor(tracker: PlayerTracker) { }
```

## Changes to the `PlayerTracker`
The methods `trackPlayersFor` and `trackAllPlayers` have been removed. They were originally introduced to prevent the Player Tracker from consuming resources when it was not explicitly being used, but the dependency injection system has solved this problem.

It has also moved from the `plugins/` folder to the `stdlib/` folder.

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
import { PlayerTracker } from './player-tracker';

class MyPlugin {
  constructor() {
    PluginManager.afterInit(() => {
      const tracker = PluginManager.getInstanceOf(PlayerTracker);
      tracker.trackAllPlayers();
    });
  }
}
```
to
```typescript
import { PlayerTracker } from '../stdlib/player-tracker';

class MyPlugin {
  constructor(tracker: PlayerTracker) { }
}
```

## Changes to the `Client` class.
The client class has received several changes to make common use cases easier, and to remove some old and clunky code.
### Changes to `Client.on`
The handler signature of the `Client` event emitter has been changed.
Previously, the handler signature was `(playerdata: IPlayerData, client: Client)`. This has been changed to `(client: Client)`.

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
Client.on('ready', (playerdata: IPlayerData, client: Client) => {
    Log('My Plugin', `${playerdata.name} is ready!`);
});
```
to
```typescript
// The parameter now has an implicit type of Client.
Client.on('ready', (client) => {
    Log('My Plugin', `${client.playerData.name} is ready!`);
});
```

### Changes to `client.nextPos`
`client.nextPos` has changed from a single value to a queue. The client will now move to each position in the queue in the order they were added.
New points can be added to the queue by using `client.nextPos.push(myNextPos);`

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
setInterval(() => {
    if (client.nextPos === null) {
        client.nextPos = myLongListOfPoints[currentPoint];
        currentPoint++;
    }
}, 100);
```
to
```typescript
client.nextPos.push(...myLongListOfPoints);
```

## Changes to the `CLI` class.
The CLI has had changes to move some code which didn't belong in the CLI, and to allow more flexibility over client control.
### Changes to `CLI.getClient and CLI.removeClient`
`CLI.getClients`, `CLI.getClient` and `CLI.removeClient` have been removed. They have been replaced by the methods `CLI.getAny` and `CLI.removeAny` which take a predicate
as the parameter and respectively return or remove any client which returns true for the predicate.

`CLI.getClients` has been deprecated, but will still function correctly.

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
CLI.removeClient(myclient.alias);
```
to
```typescript
CLI.removeAny((client) => client.alias === myclient.alias);
```

Change
```typescript
const usWestClients = CLI.getClients().filter((client) => client.server.name === 'USWest');
```
to
```typescript
const usWestClients = CLI.getAny((client) => client.server.name === 'USWest');
```

### Changes to `CLI.loadServers` and `CLI.serverList`
The server list has been moved from the `CLI` to the new service class `AccountService`. The method `AccountServer.getServerList` can be used to get the server list.

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
CLI.loadServers().then(() => {
    client.connectTo(CLI.serverList['Australia']);
});
```
to
```typescript
AccountService.getServerList().then((servers) => {
    client.connectTo(servers['Australia']);
});
```

## Changes to the `Http` service class.
The `Http` service class has been replaced by a new class, `HttpClient`. The new class supports both http and https requests and will automatically choose the appropriate protocol.
The old `Http` class is still available, but its method signatures have changed, and it is not recommended to use it anymore.

#### Refactor example
Change
```typescript
Http.get('http://mywebsite.com', { id: 'myid' });
```
to
```typescript
HttpClient.get('http://mywebsite.com', {
    query: { id: 'myid' }
});
```

Change
```typescript
Http.proxiedGet('http://mywebsite.com', myProxy, { id: 'myid' });
```
to
```typescript
HttpClient.get('http://mywebsite.com', {
    query: { id: 'myid' },
    proxy: myProxy
});
```
